---
title: "How this site was created"
date: 2023-11-29
draft: false
description: "Discover how to create your very own blog just like this one."
categories: ["Azure"]
tags: ["Hugo", "Static Web App", "GitHub"]
---

{{< lead >}}
Discover how to create your very own blog just like this one.
{{< /lead >}}

This site was built using Hugo and is hosted using a static web application on Microsoft Azure. There are associated GitHub actions which control how the site is built and published.

It uses the Blowfish theme created by Nuno Coração. This is available from <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/nunocoracao/blowfish">here.</a>

This guide also follows the Microsoft Learn guide available from <a target="_blank" href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/publish-hugo">here.</a>

If you'd like to build something similar you can follow the following steps:

## Prerequisites

* An Azure account with an active subscription. If you don't have one, you can create an account for free.
* A GitHub account. If you don't have one, you can create an account for free.

## Create a Hugo application





In order to create a similar site you must first install Hugo. Follow the installation guide for Hugo for your OS.
Open a terminal.
Run the Hugo CLI to create a new app.
hugo new site new-app
Go to the newly created app.
cd new-app
Initialize a Git repo.
git init
Create a main branch
git branch -M main
Add the Stack theme to the site by installing the theme as a git submodule.
git submodule add https://github.com/CaiJimmy/hugo-theme-stack/ themes/hugo-theme-stack
Apply the example site to give the new site some content.
cp -r themes/hugo-theme-stack/exampleSite/* ./
Now remove the config.toml that was generated by Hugo as this is replaced by the config.yaml file from the example site.
rm config.toml
Commit the changes to the main branch.
git add -A
git commit -m "initial commit"
Preview the example site by running the following and then browsing to http://localhost:1313/.
hugo server
Example Site running locally

Publish to GitHub
A GitHub repository is neeced to connect to Azure Static Web Apps.

Create a blank GitHub repo (don't create a README) here named new-app.
Add the GitHub repository as a remote to your local repo. Replace <YOUR_USER_NAME> with your GitHub username.
git remote add origin https://github.com/<YOUR_USER_NAME>/hugo-static-app
Push your local repo up to GitHub.
git push --set-upstream origin main
Your site now in GitHub

Deploy your web app
The following steps show you how to create a new static site app and deploy it to a production environment.

Create the application
Go to the Azure Portal.
Select Create a Resource.
Search for Static Web Apps.
Select Static Web Apps.
Select Create.
On the Basics tab, enter the following values.
Property	Value
Subscription	Your Azure subscription name.
Resource group	new-group
Name	new-app
Plan type	Free
Region for Azure Functions API and staging environments	Select a region closest to you.
Source	GitHub
Select Sign in with GitHub and authenticate with GitHub.
Enter the following GitHub values.
Property	Value
Organization	Select your desired GitHub organization.
Repository	Select new-app.
Branch	Select main.
In the Build Details section, select Hugo from the Build Presets drop-down and keep the default values.
Create your new web app

Review and create
Select Review + Create to verify the details are all correct.
Select Create to start the creation of the App Service Static Web App and provision a GitHub Actions for deployment.
Once the deployment completes, select Go to resource.
On the resource screen, select the URL link to open your deployed application. You may need to wait a minute or two for the GitHub Actions to complete.
Review your new web app

Your fully deployed web app running in Azure

Conclusion
This will provide you with an Azure static web app similar to mine with the Stack theme applied. From here you can add a custom domain and further customise the site.